docs/using-ethereum/how-to-buy-ether.md, before:

---
title: How to Buy Ether (ETH) - EthHub

description: Best ways to buy ETH (Ether), the currency needed to use the Ethereum network.
---

# How to Buy Ether (ETH)

In order to [interact](https://docs.ethhub.io/using-ethereum/transactions/) with the Ethereum network, you will need to own ether (ETH). Unless you are mining, the only way to acquire ETH is from someone that already owns it. Below is a list of cryptocurrency exchanges where you can acquire ETH with fiat or cryptocurrencies. It is highly recommended to store the ETH you own in a [hardware wallet](https://docs.ethhub.io/using-ethereum/wallets/hardware/)!

## Binance
Binance is headquartered in Malta and constantly has some of the highest trading volume. Users can buy ETH with fiat or cryptocurrencies.

[Buy ETH on Binance](https://www.binance.com/?ref=10900939)

## Coinbase
Coinbase is based in San Francisco and is one of the most reputable and well known exchanges in the world. Users can buy ETH with fiat or cryptocurrencies.

[Buy ETH on Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/join/527bbccd0c46660a8a00003b)

## Gemini
Gemini is based in New York and has a great history of security and reliability. Users can buy ETH with fiat or cryptocurrencies.

[Buy ETH on Gemini](https://gemini.com/share/bgw7efxb)

## Kraken
Kraken is a great option for those living in Canada, Europe, and the United States, and supports accounts for users from [other countries](https://support.kraken.com/hc/en-us/articles/360001368823-Geographic-Restrictions-Can-I-use-Kraken-if-I-m-from-) as well. Users can buy ETH with any of the supported [fiat](https://support.kraken.com/hc/en-us/articles/360000381846-Fiat-currency-deposit-methods-fees-and-minimums) or [cryptocurrencies](https://support.kraken.com/hc/en-us/articles/360001389303-Summary-of-digital-assets-cryptocurrency-minimums-and-fees).

[Buy ETH on Kraken](https://r.kraken.com/nYdo7)

## LocalCryptos
LocalCryptos is a global, p2p marketplace for buying and selling ETH. Over 30 payment methods are supported including in-person cash trades.

[Buy ETH on LocalCryptos](https://localcryptos.com/)

Commit message:

Added new exchange
Gate.io, a prominent crypto exchange, was added to the list of exchange.

docs/using-ethereum/how-to-buy-ether.md, after:

---
title: How to Buy Ether (ETH) - EthHub

description: Best ways to buy ETH (Ether), the currency needed to use the Ethereum network.
---

# How to Buy Ether (ETH)

In order to [interact](https://docs.ethhub.io/using-ethereum/transactions/) with the Ethereum network, you will need to own ether (ETH). Unless you are mining, the only way to acquire ETH is from someone that already owns it. Below is a list of cryptocurrency exchanges where you can acquire ETH with fiat or cryptocurrencies. It is highly recommended to store the ETH you own in a [hardware wallet](https://docs.ethhub.io/using-ethereum/wallets/hardware/)!

## Binance
Binance is headquartered in Malta and constantly has some of the highest trading volume. Users can buy ETH with fiat or cryptocurrencies.

[Buy ETH on Binance](https://www.binance.com/?ref=10900939)

## Coinbase
Coinbase is based in San Francisco and is one of the most reputable and well known exchanges in the world. Users can buy ETH with fiat or cryptocurrencies.

[Buy ETH on Coinbase](https://www.coinbase.com/join/527bbccd0c46660a8a00003b)

## Gemini
Gemini is based in New York and has a great history of security and reliability. Users can buy ETH with fiat or cryptocurrencies.

[Buy ETH on Gemini](https://gemini.com/share/bgw7efxb)

## Kraken
Kraken is a great option for those living in Canada, Europe, and the United States, and supports accounts for users from [other countries](https://support.kraken.com/hc/en-us/articles/360001368823-Geographic-Restrictions-Can-I-use-Kraken-if-I-m-from-) as well. Users can buy ETH with any of the supported [fiat](https://support.kraken.com/hc/en-us/articles/360000381846-Fiat-currency-deposit-methods-fees-and-minimums) or [cryptocurrencies](https://support.kraken.com/hc/en-us/articles/360001389303-Summary-of-digital-assets-cryptocurrency-minimums-and-fees).

[Buy ETH on Kraken](https://r.kraken.com/nYdo7)

## Gate.io
Gate.io is a full-service digital asset exchange platform [covering](https://www.gate.io/about-us) millions of users around the world. The company prides itself on providing industry-leading security in addition to having been audited to show 100% proof of reserves. Users can buy ETH with debit/credit card, P2P transfer, fiat or cryptocurrencies.

[Buy ETH on Gate.io](https://www.gate.io/trade/ETH_USDT)

## LocalCryptos
LocalCryptos is a global, p2p marketplace for buying and selling ETH. Over 30 payment methods are supported including in-person cash trades.

[Buy ETH on LocalCryptos](https://localcryptos.com/)
