# ERC1155

## Summary

A standard interface for contracts that manage multiple token types. A single deployed contract may include any combination of fungible tokens, non-fungible tokens, or other configurations \(for example, semi-fungible tokens\).

## Motivation

Tokens standards like ERC-20 and ERC-721 require a separate contract to be deployed for each fungible or NFT token/collection. This places a lot of redundant bytecode on the Ethereum blockchain and limits certain functionality by the nature of separating each token contract into its own permissioned address. With the rise of crypto games and platforms like Enjin Coin, game developers may be creating thousands of tokens, and a new type of token standard is needed to support this.

New functionality is possible with this design, such as transferring multiple token types at once, saving on transaction costs. Trading \(escrow / atomic swaps\) of multiple tokens can be built on top of this standard and it removes the need to "approve" individual token contracts separately. It is also easy to describe and mix multiple fungible or non-fungible tokens in a single contract.

### Batch Transfers

The safeBatchTransferFrom function allows for batch transfers of multiple token ids and values. Gas savings improves with the number of token types in the batch transfer, compared to single transfers with multiple transactions.

### Approval

Single-token based approval of specific token values has been dropped in favor of the function setApprovalForAll which allows an operator to manage one's entire set of tokens on behalf of the approver. To scope an approval to a specific set or quantity of tokens, we recommend deploying a contract that contains the desired rules, and directing end-users to approve this contract to manage their set of tokens.

## Resources

* [Github](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1155.md)
* [ERC-1155: The Crypto Item Standard](https://blog.enjincoin.io/erc-1155-the-crypto-item-standard-ac9cf1c5a226) \(blog post\)

