docs/using-ethereum/wallets/intro-to-ethereum-wallets.md, before:

# Intro to Ethereum Wallets

Wallets allow Ethereum users to store Ether and to interact with smart contracts on the Ethereum network. There are many different ways to accomplish this. Below is a list of each option and a high level overview of what each option is best for.

## Desktop Wallets
[Desktop wallets](desktop.md) are downloadable apps capable of operating on Windows, MacOS, or Linux that allow users to interact with their funds.

## Web Wallets
[Web wallets](web.md) are wallets hosted on a website, they may be custodial or act as an interface for users to generate and interact with their accounts.

## Mobile
[Phone and other mobile device-based wallets](mobile.md) are mobile alternatives to desktop and web wallets.

## Hardware
[Hardware wallets](hardware.md) are the most-secure method for accessing your funds while online, as they do not expose your private key to the internet when signing transactions.

### Buy a hardware wallet

* [Trezor](https://shop.trezor.io/product/trezor-model-t?offer_id=15&aff_id=2828) - The original hardware wallet
* [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com?r=22cab4d9225d) - Support for multiple cryptocurrencies and tokens

## Multisignature
[Multisignature Wallets](multisignature.md) are wallets created with signatures from several private keys. Multisignatures require signatures from a majority of the original signing keys (commonly referred to as n-of-m keys) in order to interact with the wallet. Ideally, the signing keys of a multisignature wallet should be comprised of several different types of wallets in order to reduce the risk of any one key from compromising the security of the multi-signature wallet. Multisignature wallets where the keys are properly distributed also reduce the risk of losing the keys to your funds due to unforeseen circumstances. For example, if a multisignature wallet included keys stored on a hardware wallet, a mobile wallet, and a desktop wallet and your mobile phone is stolen, you could still access your multisignature wallet using the hardware and desktop wallets.

Commit message:

updated multisig wallets to smart contract wallets

docs/using-ethereum/wallets/intro-to-ethereum-wallets.md, after:

# Intro to Ethereum Wallets

Wallets allow Ethereum users to store Ether and to interact with smart contracts on the Ethereum network. There are many different ways to accomplish this. Below is a list of each option and a high level overview of what each option is best for.

## Smart Contract Wallets
[Smart Contract Wallets](smart-contract-wallets.md) are wallets with unique abilities due to the power of smart contract functionality. They enable additional security and recovery features for users.

## Hardware
[Hardware wallets](hardware.md) are the most-secure method for accessing your funds while online, as they do not expose your private key to the internet when signing transactions.

## Mobile
[Phone and other mobile device-based wallets](mobile.md) are mobile alternatives to desktop and web wallets.

## Desktop Wallets
[Desktop wallets](desktop.md) are downloadable apps capable of operating on Windows, MacOS, or Linux that allow users to interact with their funds.

## Web Wallets
[Web wallets](web.md) are wallets hosted on a website, they may be custodial or act as an interface for users to generate and interact with their accounts.
