docs/ethereum-basics/development/tooling.md, before:

# Tooling

For those who wish to tackle smart contract development on Ethereum, there are a vast amount of tools one can use to leverage their smart contracts even further.

### IDEs

- [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org/) - (Great for starters!) Web IDE with built in static analysis, test blockchain VM.
- [Superblocks Lab](https://superblocks.com/lab/) - Web IDE. Built in browser blochain VM, Metamask integration (one click deployments to Testnet/Mainnet), transaction logger and live code your WebApp among many other features.
- [Atom Solidity Linter](https://atom.io/packages/atom-solidity-linter), [Etheratom](https://atom.io/packages/etheratom)
- [Pragma](https://www.withpragma.com/) - Very simple web IDE for solidity, and auto-generated interfaces for smart contracts.
  [autocomplete-solidity](https://atom.io/packages/autocomplete-solidity), and [language-solidity](https://atom.io/packages/language-solidity) packages
- [Vim solidity](https://github.com/tomlion/vim-solidity) - Vim syntax file for solidity
- [Solidity VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=JuanBlanco.solidity) - Visual Studio Code extension that adds support for Solidity
- [Intellij-Solidity Plugin](https://github.com/intellij-solidity/intellij-solidity/wiki) Open-source plug-in for IntelliJ.
- [YAKINDU Solidity Tools](https://github.com/Yakindu/solidity-ide) - Eclipse based IDE. Features context sensitive code completion and help, code navigation, syntax coloring, build in compiler, quick fixes and templates.
- [Eth Fiddle](https://ethfiddle.com/) - IDE developed by [The Loom Network](https://loomx.io/) that allows you to write, compile and debug your smart contract. Easy to share and find code snippets.

### Frameworks

- [Truffle](https://truffleframework.com) - Most popular smart contract development, testing, and deployment framework. The Truffle suite includes Truffle, [Ganache](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache), and [Drizzle](https://github.com/truffle-box/drizzle-box). [Deep dive on Truffle here](https://media.consensys.net/truffle-deep-dive-what-you-need-to-know-when-developing-on-ethereum-e548d4df6e9)
- [Embark](https://github.com/embark-framework/embark) - Framework for DApp development
- [Dapp](https://dapp.tools/dapp/) - Framework for DApp development, successor to DApple
- [Populus](https://github.com/ethereum/populus) - The Ethereum development framework with the most cute animal pictures
- [Etherlime](https://github.com/LimeChain/etherlime) - ethers.js based framework for Dapp deployment
- [Parasol](https://github.com/Lamarkaz/parasol) - Agile smart contract development environment with testing, INFURA deployment, automatic contract documentation and more. It features a a flexible and unopinionated design with unlimited customizability.

### Test blockchain networks

- [Ganache](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache) - App for test Ethereum blockchain with visual UI and logs
- [Kaleido](https://kaleido.io/) - Use Kaleido for spinning up a consortium blockchain network. Great for PoCs and testing
- [Pantheon Private Network](https://docs.pantheon.pegasys.tech/en/latest/Getting-Started/Private-Network-Quickstart/) - Run a private network of Pantheon nodes in a Docker container
- [Local Raiden](https://github.com/ConsenSys/Local-Raiden) - Run a local Raiden network in docker containers for demo and testing purposes
- [Private networks deployment scripts](https://github.com/ConsenSys/private-networks-deployment-scripts) - Out-of-the-box deployment scripts for private PoA networks
- [Local Ethereum Network](https://github.com/ConsenSys/local_ethereum_network) - Out-of-the-box deployment scripts for private PoW networks
- [Ethereum on Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/blockchain-workbench/ethereum-poa-deployment) - Deployment and governance of consortium Ethereum PoA networks
- [getho](https://getho.io) - DApp development platform including PoA private blockchain and Smart Contract testing tool.

Commit message:

This library is no longer maintained
The Readme is suggesting to checking out a Brownie. A python framework for testing, deploying and interacting with Ethereum smart contracts.

docs/ethereum-basics/development/tooling.md, after:

# Tooling

For those who wish to tackle smart contract development on Ethereum, there are a vast amount of tools one can use to leverage their smart contracts even further.

### IDEs

- [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org/) - (Great for starters!) Web IDE with built in static analysis, test blockchain VM.
- [Superblocks Lab](https://superblocks.com/lab/) - Web IDE. Built in browser blochain VM, Metamask integration (one click deployments to Testnet/Mainnet), transaction logger and live code your WebApp among many other features.
- [Atom Solidity Linter](https://atom.io/packages/atom-solidity-linter), [Etheratom](https://atom.io/packages/etheratom)
- [Pragma](https://www.withpragma.com/) - Very simple web IDE for solidity, and auto-generated interfaces for smart contracts.
  [autocomplete-solidity](https://atom.io/packages/autocomplete-solidity), and [language-solidity](https://atom.io/packages/language-solidity) packages
- [Vim solidity](https://github.com/tomlion/vim-solidity) - Vim syntax file for solidity
- [Solidity VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=JuanBlanco.solidity) - Visual Studio Code extension that adds support for Solidity
- [Intellij-Solidity Plugin](https://github.com/intellij-solidity/intellij-solidity/wiki) Open-source plug-in for IntelliJ.
- [YAKINDU Solidity Tools](https://github.com/Yakindu/solidity-ide) - Eclipse based IDE. Features context sensitive code completion and help, code navigation, syntax coloring, build in compiler, quick fixes and templates.
- [Eth Fiddle](https://ethfiddle.com/) - IDE developed by [The Loom Network](https://loomx.io/) that allows you to write, compile and debug your smart contract. Easy to share and find code snippets.

### Frameworks

- [Truffle](https://truffleframework.com) - Most popular smart contract development, testing, and deployment framework. The Truffle suite includes Truffle, [Ganache](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache), and [Drizzle](https://github.com/truffle-box/drizzle-box). [Deep dive on Truffle here](https://media.consensys.net/truffle-deep-dive-what-you-need-to-know-when-developing-on-ethereum-e548d4df6e9)
- [Embark](https://github.com/embark-framework/embark) - Framework for DApp development
- [Dapp](https://dapp.tools/dapp/) - Framework for DApp development, successor to DApple
- [Brownie](https://github.com/HyperLink-Technology/brownie) - A python framework for testing, deploying and interacting with Ethereum smart contracts.
- [Etherlime](https://github.com/LimeChain/etherlime) - ethers.js based framework for Dapp deployment
- [Parasol](https://github.com/Lamarkaz/parasol) - Agile smart contract development environment with testing, INFURA deployment, automatic contract documentation and more. It features a a flexible and unopinionated design with unlimited customizability.

### Test blockchain networks

- [Ganache](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache) - App for test Ethereum blockchain with visual UI and logs
- [Kaleido](https://kaleido.io/) - Use Kaleido for spinning up a consortium blockchain network. Great for PoCs and testing
- [Pantheon Private Network](https://docs.pantheon.pegasys.tech/en/latest/Getting-Started/Private-Network-Quickstart/) - Run a private network of Pantheon nodes in a Docker container
- [Local Raiden](https://github.com/ConsenSys/Local-Raiden) - Run a local Raiden network in docker containers for demo and testing purposes
- [Private networks deployment scripts](https://github.com/ConsenSys/private-networks-deployment-scripts) - Out-of-the-box deployment scripts for private PoA networks
- [Local Ethereum Network](https://github.com/ConsenSys/local_ethereum_network) - Out-of-the-box deployment scripts for private PoW networks
- [Ethereum on Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/blockchain-workbench/ethereum-poa-deployment) - Deployment and governance of consortium Ethereum PoA networks
- [getho](https://getho.io) - DApp development platform including PoA private blockchain and Smart Contract testing tool.
